# blueteco
RISING AWARENESS: RIVER MONITORING PROJECT EUROPE 2018 How much pollution can our rivers tolerate and where does it actually come into the waters?  We start the dialogue on 3600km of European waterways. Online data recording of spectrophotometers and electrochemical probes currently dramatically increases the amount and frequency of data available for water quality studies. After three years of measuring operation with an S:: can system at various locations around the TU-Berlin Campus El Gouna, the project of a mobile application of the devices developed.     By operating a Spectro:: lyzer, Ammo:: lyzer and Oxy:: lyzer on a Con:: cube on a ship, it is possible to record an almost complete course of the parameters COD, BOD5, TOC, AFS, NO3, NH4, K, pH, temperature and dissolved oxygen for the temporal segment of the voyage.   In combination with an echo sounder measurement of the river cross section, ultrasonic Doppler profile flow measurement and a high-resolution GPS reference of all results, a cargo profile can be created.  This allows us to estimate not only the detailed load state of the river but also its treatment capacity.  The procedures for data collection, which have already been researched in a cooperation between the universities of Rostock and Dresden, are to be used and checked by the application on a long-distance tour through Central and Southeastern Europe.  A 13m long catamaran is available for this purpose, which will cover the distance between Berlin and Constanta at the Black Sea between May and August 2018.  This project is, therefore, part of a comprehensive European project consisting of three independent elements.  The boat serves as a stage for a multilingual music theatre for the idea of Europe as well as for the networking of local, European artists via the cooperation project of the floating theatre. (Further information at: www.esperantos.eu)      The main objective of the water quality measurement is besides the mere data recording, the timely publication of data on the tour.  During the interplay of musical theatre, folk theatre and environmental information events, the tour of the "Bootschafter" attract people's attention.  ​  This dynamism will be used directly to communicate results and, where appropriate, grievances to the public and provide local action groups, environmentalists and decision-makers with a data base.  This is the hope that existing environmental problems will be brought into the public interest across national borders, thereby creating a certain pressure for action on the part of the polluter.   ​  We are very happy if you help us find out about our rivers quality in Europe for a better life.
